in front of me I have three iPhone 15s
oh God oh my God oh my God oh my God
ouch oh I hate this I hate
this now why did I do that that was
extremely painful and stupid well you
might want to cover your eyes for this
one because it's about to get worse this
is essentially the sharpest pick that I
own so let's use it to carve my favorite
song lyrics ever into the back of each
one
never gone perfect now for number two
there we go gently does it and number
three I'm trying to match them as
closely as possible finished so what
I've done here is strategically
destroyed each one of these iPhones
using the same amount of force in the
same places on both the front and the
back so that we can answer a very
important question who should you be
getting to repair your phone let's call
this one phone number one I've set a
nice cheap looking green background to
represent the fact that this one we're
going to get repaired from literally
whoever will take the least amount of
money phone 2 this middle yellow one is
going to be repaired by someone who I
think is charging a fair price then I'm
going to set a deep red wallpaper for
phone 3 because this one is going
directly to Apple and it's probably
going to be expensive so we're going to
be able to see how the entire experience
Works who does it the cheapest and who
does it the best okay so Step One is we
make some phone calls so what are the
local options in my city these are the
kind of places that I imagine will
hopefully be cheaper than Apple okay
let's start with phone garage
hello hey
he I have just managed to smash my
iPhone 15 in a pretty brutal way would
you be able to repair it yes you can do
that to you it's nearly 320 320 for the
screen of the iPhone 15 and if you want
the gentic one 180 and then also about
the back plate cuz I've scratched up the
back of the phone as
well5 on extra how quickly would you be
able to repair it take like 4 to 5 hours
big only half an hour it's very
interesting that this guy's saying the
official Apple screen is going to cost
me
£320 for a phone that I only bought for
£699 but it is cool that he gave us that
cheaper option of £180 and then £75 for
the back cuz I'd be very curious how
close to the originals quality that can
get that's closer to what I imagine it
actually should cost for the original
parts but then I found someone willing
to go even further you know the ones
which don't actually have a website but
just like a really poorly kept Facebook
page if anyone's going to do a cheap rep
I think it's going to be these guys 180
180 I can give you screen Protection
free we don't change only back glass we
change full housing but what that means
is I'm going to have to get the front
repaired from this guy and then the back
repaired from the first place and that
will be a non- genuine screen quality is
very good same as the Orion thank you
very much and that go is pretty nice so
£180 for the screen which he's saying is
original Apple quality without being
original Apple he'll throw in a screen
protector for free so that I I don't do
it again to myself and then if I have
any problems with it he'll fix it
although we do need to find out exactly
how long that warranty period would last
for so E mobile repair is going to be
our cheapest option well wait the dude's
already sent me a text that is
absolutely crazy you know in this year
after your first date you should wait a
couple of days before texting this guy
was just straight in now on my route to
finding a fair Middle Ground repair
option I ended up having an extremely
interesting chat with a not Apple but
supposedly Apple certified Repair Center
thank you than you for calling a genuine
Apple replacement screen is £300 on
those the third party screens they don't
really do one for the 15 there is the
odd ones about but they will not do very
good at all has Apple changed something
on the 15 that makes them less
repairable yes it's Hardware locks on
stuff so things are paid up to them now
if you tip the camera out of another
iPhone 15 original one put it into your
the camera won't work at all what some
of them do do to try and falsify a
little bit is detect the chip from the
original screen and transfer that chip
onto the replacement screen mhm and then
it will stop the notifications coming up
I'm an apple technician but not for here
when I'm at the other shop I can do them
that's the shop that's authorized do so
we have to do them from that geo
location as such oh I see so Apple
actually like tells you where that
repair can happen as well yeah
everything's coded when we order the
parts they come direct to that store and
we can use them within that store cuz
obviously Apple would know by the IP
what address where you doing it wow
there's a lot into it they're very
clever now I thought while we're here we
might as well also ask this guy if he
thinks Apple makes a profit on the parts
IT supplies to repair centers or if
they're doing it at Cost oh they'll make
profit on them the mid shaft is for a
genuine they're
439 15 Pro Max a shf is £600 and a
screen is £400 um what 400 just for the
screen can that be right but also Apple
actually geol loocks the location of the
repair centers that are authorized to
make sure that the repair only happens
in that exact location that's been
approved right now I guess we have to
bite the bullet and call Apple
themselves okay I think you actually
have to go through their website so they
have this tool that lets you calculate I
guess so cracked screen iPhone 15 yeah £
289 and then what if the back glass is
damaged 169 is what it's saying hm so
then I can do cracked screen and back
glass damage together and that's going
to be 399 that's definitely cheaper than
what the last guy was telling us but
it's all just so weird how much
disinformation there is between these
different repair places anyway is turns
out there is no Apple store in my area
but it's fine because what Apple does
then is sends you to a store that
they've approved to do it on behalf of
them so let's call them we have apple
trained engineers and they use all Apple
certified parts so it's the same as
getting it repaired through Apple
themselves most repairs if we've got
Parts in take about three hours okay
that's pretty fast if we've not got
Parts in um which both parts we might
not uh you're normally looking around
about two to three working days for you
it seems like the nearest appointment
you have is Tuesday is that
right okay I mean there's kind of good
news in the sense that I was expecting
this to potentially take 10 to 15 days
going the official route he's suggesting
it can actually be done same day
although because they're so busy that
same day has to be 5 days from now what
I'm finding really interesting here is
that Apple themselves are not actually
the most expensive repair option the
most expensive actually seems to be the
companies who use official Apple Parts
but who aren't themselves Apple the way
that it clearly works is you either go
to you go to a local place and you get
local unauthorized parts and that is
going to be your cheapest option or you
go to Apple themselves in which case you
pay a high price but then you do get
everything the official way it doesn't
feel like there's an in between option
though that makes sense in any way like
if you go to third party repair places
but then specify that you also want
Apple official Parts you'll actually pay
more than just going to Apple but we
should try it as a third option just in
case there are any surprises on the way
so let's call up the delightfully named
ick and I just wanted to get a quote
330b for the standard quality screen 450
for the original screen and original bag
this standard screen like how good is it
compared to the original screen it's
obviously not that good but the original
screens you get from used iPhones is
that right yes for you we'll stick with
the 4501 then it will be take three to
four working days it's so strange that
there's a situation in which the really
kind of dodgy hodg Podge repairs why
that is more expensive than Apple's
official one right so I think we have
our three repair options we have the
completely unofficial repair which is
going to cost £180 for the screen from
one shop and then £75 for a new back to
be stuck on from another shop then
there's unofficial repair but using real
Parts which is going to cost £330 for
the screen and then £1 120 for the back
so £450 and then there's the full
official Channel which is Apple's £400
lb repair let's get the ball rolling
with them so we're still on Day Zero
we're on our way to the cheapest repair
place going to say actually kind of
proud with how symmetrically I've
managed to destroy these almost like a
work of art
oh okay I don't think it's open yet
that's actually a very cool logo though
you see the the phone with the notch
might just like give the phone number a
ring hi uh I called earlier today I
we're waiting outside the store for a
phone repair not 10 open 10 apparently
oh oh my God
[Music]
so you were saying you could do a
unofficial screen repair for 180 and
then you give a tempered glass screen
protector so basically every feature
should work the same way and you think
the quality looks the same yeah you
could do this you're saying within about
an hour yeah yeah right well I can't
speak to the quality of the repair yet
but what I really like about these small
shops as opposed to the big corporations
is they just get it done as opposed to
like scheduling an appointment and then
we'll check stock of parts and maybe
we'll order them in from our warehouse
but we move time to tackle our next
repair
[Music]
store ey crack ey crack sounds a bit
funny than that but never mind why did
they call themselves ey crack that
implies they're the ones doing the
cracking what was wrong with eye fix
what a glorious Haven of a modern
society a broken iPhone here my friend
carbed something into it
330 for the standard quality both and
450 for the original screen and the
original G unless you get it replaced
from the Apple itself you will get a
message saying it's not an apple
original part
£450 is just wild for a phone that I
paid $699 for something about the
current state of the repair industry
really sucks and I can't tell right now
if it's because of Apple who is
specifically coding the parts in your
iPhone to make sure they only work in
your iPhone or if it's just on the
repairers so both non-apple repair
phones have been dropped we're still on
the first day mind you so I was
expecting to wait a little bit of time
to hear from anyone but I have learned
never to underestimate eMobile repair
okay we've only been back about 45
minutes hi just want to confirm phone
fixed and ready thanks
crazy hello the entire front panel is
gone and that's what been a place okay
it's the actual screen that's being
fitted I actually think that it's a
generic one that brand stick has been
stuck on afterwards just to add
legitimacy to it sorry I peeled that
label so true tone works yeah yeah exact
copy exact copy yeah right so I guess
this is one immediate downside of going
via the ultra cheap rout cuz it's
basically just 2 month warranty
scribbled onto a tiny little receipt I
think they'd probably honor it out of
Goodwill but you don't really have a
guarantee in the same way that you do
when you go via official channels but
remember we're not done yet with this
one because mobile repair didn't offer a
back replacement I have to make another
stop to be able to get that done my
friend decided to carve something into
it so I just want to swap it you guys
said you could do it same day about
£75 to order it so it will tomorrow
tomorrow okay we'll order the back yeah
that's it's kind of unfortunate really
they did say on the phone that it would
be done the same day and now they're
saying that you actually have to pay the
cash first so that they order the part
so that they can bend do it it's still a
faster than the official rout but it
just doesn't feel good to be thrown
around like
that okay so we're about to colapse the
fully repaired cheapest repair phone
yeah just working on your phone again
the connection was loose we'll come back
in 15 minutes is that okay that actually
doesn't give me a lot of confidence in
the quality of repair if they've already
found a loose part so I did what I
always do when I have 50 minutes to
spare the Pokémon card shop never gets
old right now let's pick up the phone so
the robber bands are keeping the back on
yes do you think this will Avid the
warranty as well
yes she kind of feel bad for it it looks
like it's just come out of surgery o
actually I've just realized
something okay we need to talk about
this oh wow it's Lally giving me a
temperature warning obviously the glue
gun they've used to fix this is not an
apple approved fixing method there's
been a slight hiccup with phone number
two we can't get that original screen
and origal will back for it right now
there are some shops which deal with the
original parts how do they get the parts
the original parts I have no idea but
very honest so it's not great that
they've agreed to a service before
knowing that they could do it and
slightly alarming that they don't know
where their parts are coming from is
there a way you can just request the
original parts and we wait a bit longer
I can ask the guy in the main lab half
an hour I'll get back to you yeah he
didn't get back to me it's not available
in the market as I told you before so
you have have no estimated time when
that's going to come exactly I think
I'll leave it then thank you oh
dear hey we are bright and early on day
number five and we're going straight to
our very official Apple appointment talk
now how is the official Apple cheaper
than many other places official pricing
would display separately about so I'm
not sure if they were take into account
that cheaper when you get both done at
the same time with the 50 remve the back
BL now okay so it'll be display you
taking off taking off cuz on the old
models you would have to replace the
entire back of the phone so means I
don't need to wipe my phone or anything
like that like that's really good how
does the warranty work is it the same
warranty that I purchased it with or do
you get an extended warranty it's
continuing the warranty you have at the
moment or if you had less than 90 days
it would extend so we're out of back at
the
moment fre working days so
Tuesday so you guys can't tell me now
when it'll be in it'll be a text uh it
be a text this is a pretty positive
experience to be honest like yes
obviously expensive but now we know that
it's not as expensive as it gets and it
is really good to know that the official
Repair Route no longer needs you to wipe
your vote and I suppose the other part
of it is as much as I don't love that
this is a thing this is your only way to
guarantee that you can actually keep
your warranty like as soon as you start
getting those not genuine parts messages
it's it's gone right this is actually
really interesting like there's a good
chance you've heard that Apple has been
in quite a bit of hot water over the
last few years for trying to control the
repair process and rightly so to be
honest cuz I mean if you think about the
percentage value of the phone that we've
just had to pay just to fix it it's
almost cheaper just to buy a working
used one on eBay but I do feel like
we've just witnessed the first signs of
that changing let's just try Opera's
Arya AI here what has Apple changed on
their newer iPhones that allows them to
be cheaper to repair okay so modular
design which means that individual
components are easier to take off
separately so I guess that's why they no
longer need to completely replace the
phone they can just fix what's there and
then also easier disassembly so fewer
mechanisms and adhesives so I can get
rid of all of this and the new tab
within a new tab Island which is one of
the best things about Opera's browser
everything actually feels organized so
if we go to Apple's repair cost
estimator iPhone 15 which is what we
already did it's going to tell us that
it will cost $399 we knew that but but
if you change that to iPhone 14 pro
which is the last phone using the
previous less repairable architecture
619 to repair a phone that is an
absolute joke the only remaining
question then is this whole Parts
pairing thing that Apple does this idea
that Apple has to specifically assign a
part to authorize it to be able to work
within your specific iPhone otherwise
it's non- genuine parts popup messages
and voiding of your warranty as well as
in some cases the parts just not working
at all that's an ARA question too to be
fair what are the Arguments for and
against Apple's Parts pairing on their
iPhones so yeah the perks are quality
control it's Apple's way of making sure
that if you get an iPhone you're having
the iPhone experience all the time but
then I suppose to some extent it is also
for the security of the customer like
let's say you go to a knockoff repair
store to fix your face ID scanner for
example and then they fix that with a
knockoff face ID part that may scan your
face data in a less secure way and then
something happens and then you blame it
on your iPhone I guess Apple's trying to
avoid that situation but then on the
other hand Parts pairing does severely
limit the users Choice when it comes to
options for repairing their phone like
this whole process has been very
shocking to me I expected to be able to
walk into these shops and there' be 15
different tiers of repair options I
could go with all at different price
points but the truth is it's just not
worth it for most companies because the
iPhone's going to reject most kinds of
repair and the consumer won't be happy
with them and then yeah actually also
the fact that people feel like this
behavior encroaches on their right to
repair the fact that like I'm having to
pay £400 or else there is a pretty major
downside that does feel like a problem
but there's a glimmer of hope it feels
like it is creeping towards the right
direction cuz actually 2 weeks ago Apple
changed their policy to allow you to
repair iPhones using used parts like
they still have to be genuine parts it
doesn't fix that problem but they can be
genuine parts from an older used iPhone
that isn't specifically the one model
that those parts were designed for okay
let's skip to actually picking up the
two remaining phones so we can dig into
some results and if you want to try the
Opera browser for yourself that sponsor
of this video to be able to do all of
this stuff then link is in the
description I would strongly recommend
at least trying so time to pick up the
finished phone from Apple and the
remains of the phone from I what's the
reason that they're not coming up parts
no no exactly okay all right well thank
you that's all right hello I'm just
picking up a repair so they've done the
screen and they've done the back glass
you miss who the box that is me yes way
oh you watched together
yeah M using a
pixel it's lovely to meet you now
clearly this did not go as I was
expecting it to go I thought there'd be
a really cheap option a middle option
and then the premium official option and
that after all of this I would end up
telling you middle is fine now I would
say that the premium option is about
what I expected it to be it's expensive
I mean £400 to repair a phone that once
you've used it is only worth about 5 to
600 is absolutely crazy but also you're
not likely to get an appointment
straight away which means that even
though the repair in this case was
pretty fast it took 2 Days in total
because I had to wait 5 days to actually
get that repair in the total time is 7
days which in today's age is a long time
to spend without your phone but there
are clear perks you keep your original
warranty and the warranty is actually
extended if you're near the end of it
your phone keeps its waterproofing and I
mean it really does just look like apple
gave me a brand new phone with the perks
of actually them not having to replace
the device I mean I can't see a single
Perfection on either the front or the
back so clearly there are some
substantial quality checks in place when
you go down this route the middle option
makes no sense at all I mean if you want
genuine Apple Parts you're going to have
to just pay more going through this way
than just going through Apple everyone
loses in this situation you're not going
to get the same quality checks your back
is effectively going to be glued on so
it's going to be messy and you're going
to lose your waterproofing your warranty
is basically void on arrival and even
though they can use official Apple Parts
there is still a very good chance that
you're going to get a notification
saying that they're not genuine parts
because of this whole Parts pairing
thing so only apple as well as the few
sellers that they authorize to work on
their behalf have the software required
to authenticate your parts and without
that the resale value of your phone is
just going to plummet and that's if
these third party sellers can even find
a real Apple part which in my case they
could not so I just told them don't
bother I just going to have to take the
L on this phone but hey if you're
finding this video useful then a sub to
the channel well would be
cracking just not I cracking cuz they
didn't but the cheap option this one is
a lot more interesting because this in
total has cost me$
255 and in my case it took one day and
that's just because of the delay getting
the back plate in but had they had that
in stock this could have been a same day
repair and like obviously I am in the
lucky position where if I send my phone
in I have other smartphones I can use
but a lot of people don't for a lot of
people handing in your smartphone might
well mean living with a dumb phone or no
phone for that time and so being able to
minimize that Gap is a big perk but what
is the quality of the repair like feel
like we got a Bonus gift with these
rubber bands okay for starters the
tempered glass screen protector they'
put on the front is actually not quite
the right size for this phone it's kind
of peeking out the bottom of the screen
in a way that once you've noticed it for
the first time is pretty distracting oh
it's really not good there's actually a
crack in in the screen protector itself
already there's a weird shadowing around
the dynamic Island which actually makes
it look a lot like a fake iPhone let's
take this screen protector off oh wow
yeah even without the screen protector
the screen he's fitted is actually a lot
thicker so the phone is much less
seamless too than it originally was the
viewing angles are absolutely atrocious
like as soon as you rotate this more
than 30° just turns into a red mess does
true tone still work let's see well
actually yeah it's gone the option for
True tone is has disappeared from the
phone because it knows it's not using a
genuine part the phone is much more
aware of what parts it's using than I
originally expected it just feels like
everything happens a tiny bit slower
than it does on the real phone oh but
the back is the real problem like the
glue is still seeping around all four
corners it feels terrible it looks
terrible but also they've got it in the
cameras like if you look really closely
here there is glue behind the glass on
my phone it's not a great look but to be
fair it doesn't show on camera or
particularly affect the image quality so
you know for the 10% of people who just
will not pay £400 to repair their iPhone
this is a cheaper option that does also
do the job the best option for most
people though will be the official
repair route but if this video has
taught me one thing it's that the repair
industry in general just sucks and that
cases and screen protectors just make
too much sense